---
title: Vim Usage
date: 2023-06-09T00:00:00.000Z
layout: post
comments: true
draft: false
categories:
- Dev
- Vim
---

ctrl+o and ctrl+shit+i is the combo for going back and forth using vim jumps. Normally it should be ctrl+i or tab to jump forward. If it's not working then I found you can use ctrl+shift+i.

Will keep updating this post with other vim related things that i want to track and share.

### Golang Import Error
Sometimes if you install golang package using go get in terminal outside vim editor. It's still showing import error. Until its fixed by gopls or whatever plugin is handling that you can just kill the goplz process.

{{< highlight bash "linenos=table,hl_lines=8 15-17,linenostart=1" >}}

pkill gopls

{{< / highlight >}}

Killing gopls will let neovim/vim to get rid of this false import erorr.

### Line Wrap
To wrap line wrapped for the vim current window width use following.


{{< highlight bash "linenos=table,hl_lines=8 15-17,linenostart=1" >}}

set wrap

{{< / highlight >}}


### Neoterm
Just to run some command and get the output in a terminal that is loaded inside a buffer.


{{< highlight bash "linenos=table,hl_lines=8 15-17,linenostart=1" >}}

ctrl-\ ctrl-n


{{< / highlight >}}


### Selcting function body
The better way to select a function content is to go inside a function 
with your cursor and type **vi}** it will select everything between { and }.

Another method is using **v{o}** this will also select function body.

In case you want to select body and the function signature you can do **va{V**



### Persistent folding

I have found this [resource](https://github.com/NickP-real/.dotfile/blob/main/.config/nvim/lua/core/autocmd.lua#L115-L130) this solves my problem of keeping the folds and loading them when I am openning file again.


{{< highlight bash "linenos=table,hl_lines=8 15-17,linenostart=1" >}}


local autocmd = vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd
local augroup = vim.api.nvim_create_augroup


-- Persistent Folds
local save_fold = augroup("Persistent Folds", { clear = true })
autocmd("BufWinLeave", {
  pattern = "*.*",
  callback = function()
    vim.cmd.mkview()
  end,
  group = save_fold,
})
autocmd("BufWinEnter", {
  pattern = "*.*",
  callback = function()
    vim.cmd.loadview({ mods = { emsg_silent = true } })
  end,
  group = save_fold,
})


{{< / highlight >}}




Thanks for reading.

-Najam
